# Fire_alarm-sensor_system Hardware
This was a capstone design project at the University of Virginia. 
the full report can be found here: [capstone thesis report](ECE_4440-4991-Design-Project-Final_Report.pdf)
## Design elements
The initial goal of this project is the problem: How can someone tell if a barn, fields, or their forests are on fire. This system is a proof of concept for a fire alarm sensor system deployable close to human infrastructure, as opposed to in remote locations. This system communicates over wifi to trigger an alarm, as well as provide air quality, humidity, and temperature data. Other communication systems were considered, particularly LoRA, but they are more suited to remote locations deep in forests or other areas for wild fire protection, rather than close to or on managed properties. The design is meant to be fairly simple, as to allow a price point of at most $100 per device but through good supply chain optimization it could fall to as low as $40. The device is battery powered, as most fire alarms, but instead of it being for backup it powers main operation and sends alerts when the battery is low. 

## Electrical Design
The primary elements of consideration here was low power usage. So the device is designed to run from a single 18650 lithium battery, although a 2P 18650 system would run double the time, with full recharging built in. this meant that to maintain efficiency, the device operation voltage should be 3.3V. this happened via a low dropout Linear regulator, although finished designs and ultra power efficient devices should use a buck-boost, or sepic configuration switching supplies to increase power effiency into the 90-99% power efficient ranges. The sensors themselves were chosen to be compatible with 3.3V, as well as common protocols to allow easy communication with a microcontroller, which in this case I2C devices were chosen, as the other most common protocol SPI is less space and pin efficient and the benefit of higher data transfer rates are not needed. The gas sensor was the most sensitive component of assembly, a ZMOD line chip, and required working with the assembler to gurantee that it would not be damaged in the assembly process. 
